IS ORGANIZATION DESPOTISM?
There is a class of honest reformers in the country who answer yes! to this question. This class is specially representative of the Warren school of individualism. In the intense desire its members have for each person to acquire the use of every personal right, they lose sight of that which must follow the acquisition. In liberty for the individual, they seem to think the ultimate is gained- seen to think there is nothing beyond that except individual progress in the sphere of freedomm and their arguments go so far, at least by implication, as to denominate the right which two peoplw have to enter into any organized effort as despotism.
'The word' E. H. Heywood, editor, is the organ of this class of reformers. In the number for May there are several articles of this kind, some of which have appeared in the WEEKLY together with answers to the arguments advanced in them. The articles referred to assume that children belong to parents and that there is no right outside them that can interfere to change their rearing or promote the interests of the former. If this were true, of course any government that should undertake to arrange for the better education of children would be despotic.
But while admitting the conclusion we deny the premises from which is drawn, The Word does not assert that children belong to parents absolutely, but it proceeds with its arguments just as if it did so assert, and in so arguing, also by implication, denies the right of society to have anything to do with them. Had The Word considered the replies that have appeared in the WEEKLY upon this point, we do not think it could have consistently permitted the article in question to appear without also printing the reply. This would have been just and fair to all the parties. we maintain that children belong to themselves just as all other individuals belong to themselves, so then the real thing is to be determined before The Word can consistently charge us with despotism is as to the ownership of the children. If they belong to parents, then The Word is right. If they belong to themselves, then The Word is wrong.